<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Teamwork Beyond the Core Content Areas in a PLC at Work&#174;</title>
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section epub:type="toc">
<header>
<h2 class="fm-head" epub:type="title" id="sec_002">Teamwork Beyond the Core Content Areas in a <abbr title="Professional Learning Communities">PLC</abbr> at Work<sup>&#174;</sup></h2>
</header>
<p><a href="#dummy_link">The goal of a mentalization-informed clinical model for working with parents is to promote a self-sustaining parental capacity to manage a child&#8217;s difficulties and the accompanying emotional challenges, while opening the potential for connection and satisfaction in the experience of parenting. Quite often, clinical formulations that guide work with parents become focused on what the parents are not doing or how they are affecting the child in a less than optimal way. There is a tendency to ignore the importance of developing safety and trust in the relationship with parents and seeing them as whole persons, beginning with an exploration of their own experience, their thoughts and feelings, and their hopes and fears, in the context of parenting. Our mentalization-informed model to parent work promotes a benign, nonpathologizing attitude, which seeks to facilitate the activation of a &#8220;mentalizing system&#8221; in the working relationship between parent and therapist that is parallel to the caregiver&#8211;child system. Our goal is to offer a relationship to parents where they can feel seen and understood in their strengths and difficulties as parents. By doing so, we assess and adapt to their own developmental competency, as well as their emotional and relational patterns that are predominant in the relational <span aria-label="14" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_14" title="14"></span>dynamics with their child. We intend to offer them a relational experience that, if generalized with their child, can help them offer a different way of being with their child and managing the inevitable challenges and difficulties that parenting implies. This is a relationship where their curiosity and availability prevails, which facilitates the child&#8217;s experience of being seen and considered by their parents.</a></p>
<p><a href="#dummy_link">Let&#8217;s begin with a clinical moment: Imagine a mother who comes to therapy and, in explaining her 10-year-old daughter&#8217;s separation anxiety, describes her daughter&#8217;s &#8220;fear.&#8221; The therapist asks the mother, &#8220;How do you know your daughter feels fear?&#8221; To which the mother replies, &#8220;I spend so much time with her, we&#8217;re very connected. I just worry about her future &#8230;&#8221;</a></p>
</section></body>
</html>