<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Title Page in Collaboration for Career &amp; Technical Education: Teamwork Beyond the Core Content Areas in a PLC at Work®</title>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/></head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section1 epub:type="titlepage">
<header>
<h1 epub:type="title" class="book-title"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_i"/>Collaboration <span class="title1">for</span> <span class="title2">Career &amp; Technical Education</span></h1>
<p epub:type="subtitle" class="book-subtitle">Teamwork Beyond the Core Content Areas in a <abbr title="Professional Learning Communities">PLC</abbr> at Work<sup>®</sup></p>
</header>
</section1>
</section1>
<section1 epub:type="frontmatter">
<header>
<h2 epub:type="title" class="fm-head">Teamwork Beyond the Core Content Areas in a <abbr title="Professional Learning Communities">PLC</abbr> at Work<sup>®</sup></h2>
</header>
<p>The goal of a mentalization-informed clinical model for working with parents is to promote a self-sustaining parental capacity to manage a child’s difficulties and the accompanying emotional challenges, while opening the potential for connection and satisfaction in the experience of parenting. Quite often, clinical formulations that guide work with parents become focused on what the parents are not doing or how they are affecting the child in a less than optimal way. There is a tendency to ignore the importance of developing safety and trust in the relationship with parents and seeing them as whole persons, beginning with an exploration of their own experience, their thoughts and feelings, and their hopes and fears, in the context of parenting. Our mentalization-informed model to parent work promotes a benign, nonpathologizing attitude, which seeks to facilitate the activation of a “mentalizing system” in the working relationship between parent and therapist that is parallel to the caregiver–child system. Our goal is to offer a relationship to parents where they can feel seen and understood in their strengths and difficulties as parents. By doing so, we assess and adapt to their own developmental competency, as well as their emotional and relational patterns that are predominant in the relational <span aria-label="14" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_14" title="14"/>dynamics with their child. We intend to offer them a relational experience that, if generalized with their child, can help them offer a different way of being with their child and managing the inevitable challenges and difficulties that parenting implies. This is a relationship where their curiosity and availability prevails, which facilitates the child’s experience of being seen and considered by their parents.</p>
<p>Let’s begin with a clinical moment: Imagine a mother who comes to therapy and, in explaining her 10-year-old daughter’s separation anxiety, describes her daughter’s “fear.” The therapist asks the mother, “How do you know your daughter feels fear?” To which the mother replies, “I spend so much time with her, we’re very connected. I just worry about her future …”</p>
</section1>
<section1 epub:type="chapter">
<header>
<h2 epub:type="label" class="chap-no"><span class="chp">1</span> <span class="chap-title">MENTALIZATION AND PARENTAL REFLECTIVE FUNCTIONING IN THE CONTEXT OF DEVELOPMENT</span></h2>
</header>
<p>The goal of a mentalization-informed clinical model for working with parents is to promote a self-sustaining parental capacity to manage a child’s difficulties and the accompanying emotional challenges, while opening the potential for connection and satisfaction in the experience of parenting. Quite often, clinical formulations that guide work with parents become focused on what the parents are not doing or how they are affecting the child in a less than optimal way. There is a tendency to ignore the importance of developing safety and trust in the relationship with parents and seeing them as whole persons, beginning with an exploration of their own experience, their thoughts and feelings, and their hopes and fears, in the context of parenting. Our mentalization-informed model to parent work promotes a benign, nonpathologizing attitude, which seeks to facilitate the activation of a “mentalizing system” in the working relationship between parent and therapist that is parallel to the caregiver–child system. Our goal is to offer a relationship to parents where they can feel seen and understood in their strengths and difficulties as parents. By doing so, we assess and adapt to their own developmental competency, as well as their emotional and relational patterns that are predominant in the relational <span aria-label="14" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_14" title="14"/>dynamics with their child. We intend to offer them a relational experience that, if generalized with their child, can help them offer a different way of being with their child and managing the inevitable challenges and difficulties that parenting implies. This is a relationship where their curiosity and availability prevails, which facilitates the child’s experience of being seen and considered by their parents.</p>
<p>Let’s begin with a clinical moment: Imagine a mother who comes to therapy and, in explaining her 10-year-old daughter’s separation anxiety, describes her daughter’s “fear.” The therapist asks the mother, “How do you know your daughter feels fear?” To which the mother replies, “I spend so much time with her, we’re very connected. I just worry about her future …”</p>
<p>The way that we understand this mother’s reply is shaped by the lens of our therapeutic approach. At first, the therapist might be impressed with the mother’s investment in her child’s well-being and reinforce it by praising it. Validation and empathy could begin to emerge between the mom and the therapist. After all, coming to see a mental health professional for support has multiple meanings to a parent, but before exploring those, trust and basic safety need to be established.</p>
<p>On the other hand, a therapist could also feel concerned by the level of closeness and certainty with which this mother speaks of her daughter, who is struggling to develop a sense of agency and independent functioning. The therapist might choose a psychoeducational approach and speak about the child’s developmental needs, perhaps out of her concern for what she might perceive as an intrusive mom. This approach may result in the establishment of an expert–patient relationship, one that parents usually enjoy initially but that sends both clinician and parents into a blind search for solutions that bypasses the internal reality of the child and the family dynamic surrounding it.</p>
<p>Alternatively, the therapist could focus on the mother’s fear about her daughter’s well-being and try to bring into the room a balance between validating her current fears and inviting a new way of thinking of her child’s strengths, thus opening the door to thinking about her child’s developmental and emotional functioning, activating her reflective functioning and encouraging a mentalizing stance.</p>
<p><i>Mentalization</i> refers to the uniquely human ability to interpret the meaning of one’s own and others’ behavior by considering underlying mental states and intentions, as well as the capacity to understand the impact of one’s own affects and behaviors on others—and vice versa (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0100" role="doc-biblioref">Fonagy &amp; Target, 1996</a>). Although the capacity to mentalize is partly an innate one in humans, with its own biological underpinnings (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0146" role="doc-biblioref">Kovács et al., 2010</a>), there is little doubt that the <span aria-label="15" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_15" title="15"/>development of our ability to mentalize also depends on the quality of the social environment in which we are raised.</p>
<p>As we hope to illustrate throughout this book, the goal of a mentalization-informed clinical model working with parents is to promote a self-sustaining parental capacity to manage a child’s difficulties and the emotional challenges, while opening the potential for connection and satisfaction in the experience of parenting.</p>
<section2 epub:type="subchapter">
<header>
<h3 epub:type="title" class="head1">ATTACHMENT AND MENTALIZATION</h3>
</header>
<p>Secure attachment facilitates the development of mentalization but does not guarantee it. <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0038" role="doc-biblioref">John Bowlby (1969)</a>, the founder of attachment theory, studied children who exhibited antisocial behavior; he became curious about the connection between (a) the absence of consistent and predictable parenting figures and (b) children’s behavior. Furthermore, he began to observe the impact of loss and separation in children’s development of self-esteem and overall functioning in relationships. His work impacted the way we think about schools and hospitals and understand separations between parents and children from the child’s perspective. Later, Mary Ainsworth (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0004" role="doc-biblioref">Ainsworth et al., 1978</a>) developed more systematic scientific ways of exploring these issues across cultures. Her studies were very important, as they showed that attachment is universal—that we find it in all humans across cultures.</p>
<p>These two pioneers developed the basic language of attachment theory. The field of attachment has been influenced by other disciplines—such as developmental and cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and anthropology. Contemporary theorists and researchers have expanded the language of attachment, because of this cross-fertilization.</p>
<p>Research on mentalization blossomed within the field of attachment and psychodynamic research and theory. The term <i>mentalization</i> has its roots in 1960s French psychoanalytic terminology (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0168" role="doc-biblioref">Marty, 1991</a>), but the modern use of the term owes much to the work of Peter Fonagy and his colleagues at the Anna Freud Centre. It can be thought of as an umbrella concept (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0157" role="doc-biblioref">Luyten &amp; Fonagy, 2015</a>) that overlaps and encompasses a number of other important constructs such as theory of mind (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0196" role="doc-biblioref">Premack &amp; Woodruff, 1978</a>) and mindfulness (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0170" role="doc-biblioref">Masterpasqua, 2016</a>). The focus on mentalization as a clinical construct has contributed to the emergence of a new contemporary psychodynamic clinical modality that integrates the findings of neuropsychology, developmental psychology, genetics, and anthropology under the umbrella of developmental <span aria-label="16" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16"/>psychoanalysis. Working from this perspective approaches the work with parents from a truly curious and flexible stance that makes no assumptions about the developmental and relational journey of a parent, while being supported by a sturdy theoretical and clinical framework.</p>
<p>Mentalization is a developmental capacity inherent in all human beings, very much dependent on the quality of a child’s relationships (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0090" role="doc-biblioref">Fonagy et al., 2002</a>). The development of mentalization critically depends upon interpersonal experiences and, specifically, upon interactions with more mature minds—assuming these interactions are benign, reflective, and sufficiently attuned (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0085" role="doc-biblioref">Fonagy, 2006</a>). Early in our development, when we are, in the words of <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0101" role="doc-biblioref">Fonagy and Target (1997)</a>, “playing with reality,” we manifest different ways of approaching the relational world that precede the development of mentalization. These ways of functioning manifest early in life and reflect the existing emotional and cognitive capacities of the child.</p>
<p>Starting from infancy, children recognize contingencies in behavior; if I cry, someone—probably my parent—will come help me. This understanding of mental states is referred to as <i>teleological,</i> and these contingencies cohere into implicit relational patterns, ways of being with other people. But children in infancy do not yet have a concept of their own mind or other people’s minds or the language to articulate internal experiences. This develops over time from implicit mentalizing abilities. When mentalizing emerges remains controversial and depends upon the experimental paradigm that is used to assess it.</p>
<p>In the toddler years, children begin to comprehend mental states, but they do not yet understand that what is in their mind may differ from what is in the minds of others—a state referred to as <i>psychic equivalence.</i> By the time children are 5 years old, if they have been exposed enough to the experience of adults trying to understand who they are (what they need, want, fear, etc.), they develop what developmental psychologists call <i>theory of mind</i> (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0013" role="doc-biblioref">Bartsch &amp; Wellman, 1995</a>). An established way, which has been replicated hundreds of times, to explain how theory of mind manifests itself is the <i>false-belief task.</i> In it, a researcher shows a 3-year-old a box of crayons and asks, “What is in here?” The child says, “Crayons” and then opens the box to see candles inside. The researcher closes the box and asks, “If your friend came in and I asked him what is inside this box, what would he say?” Most 3-year-olds will respond, “Candles!” Three-year-old children believe that what they think and know is what others think and know. If we ask the same of 6-year-olds, they will answer, “Crayons, of course!” indicating their capacity for perspective taking. It is during this time that children begin to understand that just because they know something, it does not mean that other people know it, too. Translated to the emotional world, they may have an emotion, but that does not mean that <span aria-label="17" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_17" title="17"/>others have it, too; their being angry does not mean that others are angry. This capacity lays the foundation for a change in the child’s mentalizing abilities (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0074" role="doc-biblioref">Ensink &amp; Mayes, 2010</a>; <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0115" role="doc-biblioref">Gergely &amp; Jacob, 2012</a>). However, as noted, by the 2nd year of life, infants can discern that others have views that differ from their own, as they monitor, infer, and attribute beliefs to them (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0191" role="doc-biblioref">Onishi &amp; Baillargeon, 2005</a>). Another issue about theory of mind concerns culture as a factor, as research has suggested that East Asian infants acquire theory of mind later than do Western infants (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0155" role="doc-biblioref">Liu et al., 2008</a>; <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0257" role="doc-biblioref">Wellman et al., 2006</a>).</p>
<p>Between the ages of 5 and 8 years, children display a growing ability to play, including the ability to use play symbolically (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0100" role="doc-biblioref">Fonagy &amp; Target, 1996</a>; <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0178" role="doc-biblioref">Muller &amp; Midgley, 2020</a>). In this stage, they develop a more complex understanding of mental states in their play but are not necessarily able to apply this more nuanced and complex understanding to their own mental states or the mental states of others in the real world (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0100" role="doc-biblioref">Fonagy &amp; Target, 1996</a>; <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0178" role="doc-biblioref">Muller &amp; Midgley, 2020</a>). Thus, this form of prementalizing is called <i>pretend mode.</i></p>
<p>Ideally, around the age of 6 or 7 years, if we have been exposed to curious, holding, and predictable adult minds, we naturally begin to integrate the three modes of prementalizing—teleological, psychic equivalence, and pretend mode—into our behavioral and emotional functioning. As a result, although these ways of responding continue to appear when we are confronted with higher levels of emotional arousal in the context of relationships, hopefully none of them will become the primary way of managing interpersonal life.</p>
<p>However, when the child does not have enough of a secure base in their primary relationships or when the child experiences relational trauma, prementalizing functioning may become prevalent at older ages. Most of us resort to prementalizing modes at times but have developed ways of recovering our mentalizing capacities (i.e., our resilience capacity). However, under extreme levels of stress, these modes manifest themselves more prevalently, and it is more difficult to recover our reflective function.</p>
<p>Parenting is one of the most stressful challenges that a person can choose. Regardless of all of the gains that this task might bring a person, parenting challenges one’s capacity to cope with uncertainty, lack of control, and at times high levels of helplessness, as well as one’s capacity for containing strong and overwhelming feelings more generally. Seeing one’s child suffer without being able to “take the pain away” is a difficult task that at times awakens one’s “ghosts in the nursery” (a concept we explore in depth in <a href="10_Chapter03.xhtml">Chapter 3</a>). Thus, we often see parents in prementalizing modes when they are in our treatment rooms. They often present initially with strong teleological needs: “Show me that I am not a terrible parent! Please give me strategies so I can feel I know <span aria-label="18" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_18" title="18"/>what I am doing! Help my child learn how to control their emotions!” At other times, they may seem locked into their current perspectives in a psychic equivalence position: for example, “She just hates me! Like everyone else in my life, I guess.” For other parents, a pretend mode is a safer place, psychologically speaking, and they may approach the therapy from an intellectual perspective or with an idealistic hope that the child “will grow up and this will all go away.” As mental health providers, we feel the pressure to educate and validate parents—both of which, if done in a timely fashion, can help to establish a spirit of collaboration with parents.</p>
<section3 epub:type="subchapter">
<header>
<h4 epub:type="title" class="head2">PREMENTALIZING MODES</h4>
</header>
<ol class="number-list">
<li><p class="list-itemt"><b>Teleological mode:</b> Infants are described as being <i>teleological</i> because they rely heavily on behaviors: for example, they feel safe and secure because the parent does physical things such as hold them, stroke them, cuddle them, and feed them. In the context of parenting, these teleological needs might be manifested in requests such as “Could you give me some strategies to manage my child?” hence demanding objective guidance and proof of the therapist’s expertise, effort, and efficacy.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-itemt"><b>Psychic equivalence mode:</b> After the 1st year, around age 2 to 3 years, children develop an awareness of mental states; however, developmentally, they are egocentric. They do not realize that other people might have a different perspective. At this time in development, this is referred to as <i>psychic equivalence</i>—where internal thoughts and feelings are treated as real, and there is only black-and-white, good-and-bad thinking. We encounter this prementalizing way of functioning in parenting in situations where parents accuse the therapist of being judgmental because of a comment or nonverbal expression. The parent asserts their own impressions as truths and with no margin for uncertainty, often leaving the therapist feeling paralyzed and attacked.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-itemt"><b>Pretend mode:</b> This reflects even more sophistication in the ability to consider and explore mental states, but this is done only when the child can completely separate the pretend world from the real world: for example, in a fantasy world. This mode is exemplified by the parent who comes for support but seems to fill the therapy hour with random facts, theoretical explanations they have read and how they relate to their difficulties with their child, but is disconnected from their child’s underlying emotional states. Although this parent seems motivated to receive support, the therapist tends to feel disconnected from the parent and with no clear sense of how to explore their emotional experience.</p></li>
</ol>
<span aria-label="19" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_19" title="19"/>
<p class="indent">The terms <i>mentalization</i> and <i>reflective functioning</i> are often used interchangeably, although <i>reflective functioning</i> was initially considered to refer to the measurement of mentalization as manifested within narratives regarding attachment relationships (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0099" role="doc-biblioref">Fonagy, Steele, Steele, Moran, &amp; Higgitt, 1991</a>; <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0175" role="doc-biblioref">Midgley et al., 2017</a>). The early research showed that a parent’s capacity for reflective functioning when talking about their own childhood experiences was predictive of their children’s attachment security with them (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0099" role="doc-biblioref">Fonagy, Steele, Steele, Moran, &amp; Higgitt, 1991</a>). When parents had themselves experienced deprivation in childhood, the ability to reflect in this way was particularly important in their children developing a secure relationship with them. This early research led to the defining of reflective functioning as an understanding of how minds work, which goes beyond the ability to label mental states and includes recognition that (a) one cannot truly know or be sure of mental states (they are opaque), (b) mental states can be disguised, (c) mental states underlie behavior, (d) relationships have an impact on mental states, (e) people’s mental states affect and are affected by each other, (f) mental states can change over time, (g) people can have different perspectives from each other, and (h) people can have different perspectives over time.</p>
<p>Research conducted since the 1990s has looked at reflective functioning when adults are speaking about a range of material, including their children (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0217" role="doc-biblioref">Slade, 2005</a>), trauma (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0029" role="doc-biblioref">Berthelot et al., 2015</a>), and topics they discuss in therapy (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0143" role="doc-biblioref">Kivity et al., 2021</a>). In this book, <i>reflective functioning</i> is used primarily to refer to the capacity to mentalize, especially <i>explicit mentalizing</i>—that is, the conscious ability to stop and reflect on the states of mind of self and other.</p>
<p>Mentalization is a complex concept. In their attempt to define it, <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0021" role="doc-biblioref">Bateman and Fonagy (2016)</a> have described mentalization as having four dimensions:</p>
<ol class="number-list">
<li><p class="list-item">Self and Other: People can mentalize with regard to themselves (self) and others.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-item">Internal and External: Mentalizing includes reflection on what is happening internally in someone’s mind and externally in terms of their behavior.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-item">Cognition and Affect: Mentalizing includes reflection on both thoughts (cognition) and emotions (affect).</p></li>
</ol>
</section3>
</section2>
<section2 epub:type="subchapter">
<header>
<h3 epub:type="title" class="head1">ATTACHMENT AND MENTALIZATION</h3>
</header>
<p>Secure attachment facilitates the development of mentalization but does not guarantee it. <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0038" role="doc-biblioref">John Bowlby (1969)</a>, the founder of attachment theory, studied children who exhibited antisocial behavior; he became curious about the connection between (a) the absence of consistent and predictable parenting figures and (b) children’s behavior. Furthermore, he began to observe the impact of loss and separation in children’s development of self-esteem and overall functioning in relationships. His work impacted the way we think about schools and hospitals and understand separations between parents and children from the child’s perspective. Later, Mary Ainsworth (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0004" role="doc-biblioref">Ainsworth et al., 1978</a>) developed more systematic scientific ways of exploring these issues across cultures. Her studies were very important, as they showed that attachment is universal—that we find it in all humans across cultures.</p>
<p>These two pioneers developed the basic language of attachment theory. The field of attachment has been influenced by other disciplines—such as developmental and cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and anthropology. Contemporary theorists and researchers have expanded the language of attachment, because of this cross-fertilization.</p>
<p>Research on mentalization blossomed within the field of attachment and psychodynamic research and theory. The term <i>mentalization</i> has its roots in 1960s French psychoanalytic terminology (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0168" role="doc-biblioref">Marty, 1991</a>), but the modern use of the term owes much to the work of Peter Fonagy and his colleagues at the Anna Freud Centre. It can be thought of as an umbrella concept (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0157" role="doc-biblioref">Luyten &amp; Fonagy, 2015</a>) that overlaps and encompasses a number of other important constructs such as theory of mind (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0196" role="doc-biblioref">Premack &amp; Woodruff, 1978</a>) and mindfulness (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0170" role="doc-biblioref">Masterpasqua, 2016</a>). The focus on mentalization as a clinical construct has contributed to the emergence of a new contemporary psychodynamic clinical modality that integrates the findings of neuropsychology, developmental psychology, genetics, and anthropology under the umbrella of developmental <span aria-label="16" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16"/>psychoanalysis. Working from this perspective approaches the work with parents from a truly curious and flexible stance that makes no assumptions about the developmental and relational journey of a parent, while being supported by a sturdy theoretical and clinical framework.</p>
<section3 epub:type="subchapter">
<header>
<h4 epub:type="title" class="head2">ATTACHMENT AND MENTALIZATION</h4>
</header>
<p>Secure attachment facilitates the development of mentalization but does not guarantee it. <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0038" role="doc-biblioref">John Bowlby (1969)</a>, the founder of attachment theory, studied children who exhibited antisocial behavior; he became curious about the connection between (a) the absence of consistent and predictable parenting figures and (b) children’s behavior. Furthermore, he began to observe the impact of loss and separation in children’s development of self-esteem and overall functioning in relationships. His work impacted the way we think about schools and hospitals and understand separations between parents and children from the child’s perspective. Later, Mary Ainsworth (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0004" role="doc-biblioref">Ainsworth et al., 1978</a>) developed more systematic scientific ways of exploring these issues across cultures. Her studies were very important, as they showed that attachment is universal—that we find it in all humans across cultures.</p>
<p>These two pioneers developed the basic language of attachment theory. The field of attachment has been influenced by other disciplines—such as developmental and cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and anthropology. Contemporary theorists and researchers have expanded the language of attachment, because of this cross-fertilization.</p>
<p>Research on mentalization blossomed within the field of attachment and psychodynamic research and theory. The term <i>mentalization</i> has its roots in 1960s French psychoanalytic terminology (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0168" role="doc-biblioref">Marty, 1991</a>), but the modern use of the term owes much to the work of Peter Fonagy and his colleagues at the Anna Freud Centre. It can be thought of as an umbrella concept (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0157" role="doc-biblioref">Luyten &amp; Fonagy, 2015</a>) that overlaps and encompasses a number of other important constructs such as theory of mind (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0196" role="doc-biblioref">Premack &amp; Woodruff, 1978</a>) and mindfulness (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0170" role="doc-biblioref">Masterpasqua, 2016</a>). The focus on mentalization as a clinical construct has contributed to the emergence of a new contemporary psychodynamic clinical modality that integrates the findings of neuropsychology, developmental psychology, genetics, and anthropology under the umbrella of developmental <span aria-label="16" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16"/>psychoanalysis. Working from this perspective approaches the work with parents from a truly curious and flexible stance that makes no assumptions about the developmental and relational journey of a parent, while being supported by a sturdy theoretical and clinical framework.</p>
<section4 epub:type="subchapter">
<header>
<h5 epub:type="title" class="head3">ATTACHMENT AND MENTALIZATION</h5>
</header>
<p>Secure attachment facilitates the development of mentalization but does not guarantee it. <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0038" role="doc-biblioref">John Bowlby (1969)</a>, the founder of attachment theory, studied children who exhibited antisocial behavior; he became curious about the connection between (a) the absence of consistent and predictable parenting figures and (b) children’s behavior. Furthermore, he began to observe the impact of loss and separation in children’s development of self-esteem and overall functioning in relationships. His work impacted the way we think about schools and hospitals and understand separations between parents and children from the child’s perspective. Later, Mary Ainsworth (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0004" role="doc-biblioref">Ainsworth et al., 1978</a>) developed more systematic scientific ways of exploring these issues across cultures. Her studies were very important, as they showed that attachment is universal—that we find it in all humans across cultures.</p>
<p>These two pioneers developed the basic language of attachment theory. The field of attachment has been influenced by other disciplines—such as developmental and cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and anthropology. Contemporary theorists and researchers have expanded the language of attachment, because of this cross-fertilization.</p>
<p>Research on mentalization blossomed within the field of attachment and psychodynamic research and theory. The term <i>mentalization</i> has its roots in 1960s French psychoanalytic terminology (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0168" role="doc-biblioref">Marty, 1991</a>), but the modern use of the term owes much to the work of Peter Fonagy and his colleagues at the Anna Freud Centre. It can be thought of as an umbrella concept (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0157" role="doc-biblioref">Luyten &amp; Fonagy, 2015</a>) that overlaps and encompasses a number of other important constructs such as theory of mind (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0196" role="doc-biblioref">Premack &amp; Woodruff, 1978</a>) and mindfulness (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0170" role="doc-biblioref">Masterpasqua, 2016</a>). The focus on mentalization as a clinical construct has contributed to the emergence of a new contemporary psychodynamic clinical modality that integrates the findings of neuropsychology, developmental psychology, genetics, and anthropology under the umbrella of developmental <span aria-label="16" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16"/>psychoanalysis. Working from this perspective approaches the work with parents from a truly curious and flexible stance that makes no assumptions about the developmental and relational journey of a parent, while being supported by a sturdy theoretical and clinical framework.</p>
<section5 epub:type="subchapter">
<header>
<h6 epub:type="title" class="head4">ATTACHMENT AND MENTALIZATION</h6>
</header>
<p>Secure attachment facilitates the development of mentalization but does not guarantee it. <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0038" role="doc-biblioref">John Bowlby (1969)</a>, the founder of attachment theory, studied children who exhibited antisocial behavior; he became curious about the connection between (a) the absence of consistent and predictable parenting figures and (b) children’s behavior. Furthermore, he began to observe the impact of loss and separation in children’s development of self-esteem and overall functioning in relationships. His work impacted the way we think about schools and hospitals and understand separations between parents and children from the child’s perspective. Later, Mary Ainsworth (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0004" role="doc-biblioref">Ainsworth et al., 1978</a>) developed more systematic scientific ways of exploring these issues across cultures. Her studies were very important, as they showed that attachment is universal—that we find it in all humans across cultures.</p>
<p>These two pioneers developed the basic language of attachment theory. The field of attachment has been influenced by other disciplines—such as developmental and cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and anthropology. Contemporary theorists and researchers have expanded the language of attachment, because of this cross-fertilization.</p>
<p>Research on mentalization blossomed within the field of attachment and psychodynamic research and theory. The term <i>mentalization</i> has its roots in 1960s French psychoanalytic terminology (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0168" role="doc-biblioref">Marty, 1991</a>), but the modern use of the term owes much to the work of Peter Fonagy and his colleagues at the Anna Freud Centre. It can be thought of as an umbrella concept (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0157" role="doc-biblioref">Luyten &amp; Fonagy, 2015</a>) that overlaps and encompasses a number of other important constructs such as theory of mind (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0196" role="doc-biblioref">Premack &amp; Woodruff, 1978</a>) and mindfulness (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0170" role="doc-biblioref">Masterpasqua, 2016</a>). The focus on mentalization as a clinical construct has contributed to the emergence of a new contemporary psychodynamic clinical modality that integrates the findings of neuropsychology, developmental psychology, genetics, and anthropology under the umbrella of developmental <span aria-label="16" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16"/>psychoanalysis. Working from this perspective approaches the work with parents from a truly curious and flexible stance that makes no assumptions about the developmental and relational journey of a parent, while being supported by a sturdy theoretical and clinical framework.</p>
<section6 epub:type="subchapter">
<header>
<h6 epub:type="title" class="head5">ATTACHMENT AND MENTALIZATION</h6>
</header>
<p>Secure attachment facilitates the development of mentalization but does not guarantee it. <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0038" role="doc-biblioref">John Bowlby (1969)</a>, the founder of attachment theory, studied children who exhibited antisocial behavior; he became curious about the connection between (a) the absence of consistent and predictable parenting figures and (b) children’s behavior. Furthermore, he began to observe the impact of loss and separation in children’s development of self-esteem and overall functioning in relationships. His work impacted the way we think about schools and hospitals and understand separations between parents and children from the child’s perspective. Later, Mary Ainsworth (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0004" role="doc-biblioref">Ainsworth et al., 1978</a>) developed more systematic scientific ways of exploring these issues across cultures. Her studies were very important, as they showed that attachment is universal—that we find it in all humans across cultures.</p>
<p>These two pioneers developed the basic language of attachment theory. The field of attachment has been influenced by other disciplines—such as developmental and cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and anthropology. Contemporary theorists and researchers have expanded the language of attachment, because of this cross-fertilization.</p>
<p>Research on mentalization blossomed within the field of attachment and psychodynamic research and theory. The term <i>mentalization</i> has its roots in 1960s French psychoanalytic terminology (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0168" role="doc-biblioref">Marty, 1991</a>), but the modern use of the term owes much to the work of Peter Fonagy and his colleagues at the Anna Freud Centre. It can be thought of as an umbrella concept (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0157" role="doc-biblioref">Luyten &amp; Fonagy, 2015</a>) that overlaps and encompasses a number of other important constructs such as theory of mind (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0196" role="doc-biblioref">Premack &amp; Woodruff, 1978</a>) and mindfulness (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0170" role="doc-biblioref">Masterpasqua, 2016</a>). The focus on mentalization as a clinical construct has contributed to the emergence of a new contemporary psychodynamic clinical modality that integrates the findings of neuropsychology, developmental psychology, genetics, and anthropology under the umbrella of developmental <span aria-label="16" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16"/>psychoanalysis. Working from this perspective approaches the work with parents from a truly curious and flexible stance that makes no assumptions about the developmental and relational journey of a parent, while being supported by a sturdy theoretical and clinical framework.</p>
<section7 epub:type="subchapter">
<header>
<h6 epub:type="title" class="head6">ATTACHMENT AND MENTALIZATION</h6>
</header>
<p>Secure attachment facilitates the development of mentalization but does not guarantee it. <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0038" role="doc-biblioref">John Bowlby (1969)</a>, the founder of attachment theory, studied children who exhibited antisocial behavior; he became curious about the connection between (a) the absence of consistent and predictable parenting figures and (b) children’s behavior. Furthermore, he began to observe the impact of loss and separation in children’s development of self-esteem and overall functioning in relationships. His work impacted the way we think about schools and hospitals and understand separations between parents and children from the child’s perspective. Later, Mary Ainsworth (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0004" role="doc-biblioref">Ainsworth et al., 1978</a>) developed more systematic scientific ways of exploring these issues across cultures. Her studies were very important, as they showed that attachment is universal—that we find it in all humans across cultures.</p>
<p>These two pioneers developed the basic language of attachment theory. The field of attachment has been influenced by other disciplines—such as developmental and cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and anthropology. Contemporary theorists and researchers have expanded the language of attachment, because of this cross-fertilization.</p>
<p>Research on mentalization blossomed within the field of attachment and psychodynamic research and theory. The term <i>mentalization</i> has its roots in 1960s French psychoanalytic terminology (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0168" role="doc-biblioref">Marty, 1991</a>), but the modern use of the term owes much to the work of Peter Fonagy and his colleagues at the Anna Freud Centre. It can be thought of as an umbrella concept (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0157" role="doc-biblioref">Luyten &amp; Fonagy, 2015</a>) that overlaps and encompasses a number of other important constructs such as theory of mind (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0196" role="doc-biblioref">Premack &amp; Woodruff, 1978</a>) and mindfulness (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0170" role="doc-biblioref">Masterpasqua, 2016</a>). The focus on mentalization as a clinical construct has contributed to the emergence of a new contemporary psychodynamic clinical modality that integrates the findings of neuropsychology, developmental psychology, genetics, and anthropology under the umbrella of developmental <span aria-label="16" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16"/>psychoanalysis. Working from this perspective approaches the work with parents from a truly curious and flexible stance that makes no assumptions about the developmental and relational journey of a parent, while being supported by a sturdy theoretical and clinical framework.</p>
<section8 epub:type="subchapter">
<header>
<h6 epub:type="title" class="head7">ATTACHMENT AND MENTALIZATION</h6>
</header>
<p>Secure attachment facilitates the development of mentalization but does not guarantee it. <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0038" role="doc-biblioref">John Bowlby (1969)</a>, the founder of attachment theory, studied children who exhibited antisocial behavior; he became curious about the connection between (a) the absence of consistent and predictable parenting figures and (b) children’s behavior. Furthermore, he began to observe the impact of loss and separation in children’s development of self-esteem and overall functioning in relationships. His work impacted the way we think about schools and hospitals and understand separations between parents and children from the child’s perspective. Later, Mary Ainsworth (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0004" role="doc-biblioref">Ainsworth et al., 1978</a>) developed more systematic scientific ways of exploring these issues across cultures. Her studies were very important, as they showed that attachment is universal—that we find it in all humans across cultures.</p>
<p>These two pioneers developed the basic language of attachment theory. The field of attachment has been influenced by other disciplines—such as developmental and cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and anthropology. Contemporary theorists and researchers have expanded the language of attachment, because of this cross-fertilization.</p>
<p>Research on mentalization blossomed within the field of attachment and psychodynamic research and theory. The term <i>mentalization</i> has its roots in 1960s French psychoanalytic terminology (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0168" role="doc-biblioref">Marty, 1991</a>), but the modern use of the term owes much to the work of Peter Fonagy and his colleagues at the Anna Freud Centre. It can be thought of as an umbrella concept (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0157" role="doc-biblioref">Luyten &amp; Fonagy, 2015</a>) that overlaps and encompasses a number of other important constructs such as theory of mind (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0196" role="doc-biblioref">Premack &amp; Woodruff, 1978</a>) and mindfulness (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0170" role="doc-biblioref">Masterpasqua, 2016</a>). The focus on mentalization as a clinical construct has contributed to the emergence of a new contemporary psychodynamic clinical modality that integrates the findings of neuropsychology, developmental psychology, genetics, and anthropology under the umbrella of developmental <span aria-label="16" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16"/>psychoanalysis. Working from this perspective approaches the work with parents from a truly curious and flexible stance that makes no assumptions about the developmental and relational journey of a parent, while being supported by a sturdy theoretical and clinical framework.</p>
<section11 epub:type="subchapter">
<p class="head-10">ATTACHMENT AND MENTALIZATION</p>
<p>Secure attachment facilitates the development of mentalization but does not guarantee it. <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0038" role="doc-biblioref">John Bowlby (1969)</a>, the founder of attachment theory, studied children who exhibited antisocial behavior; he became curious about the connection between (a) the absence of consistent and predictable parenting figures and (b) children’s behavior. Furthermore, he began to observe the impact of loss and separation in children’s development of self-esteem and overall functioning in relationships. His work impacted the way we think about schools and hospitals and understand separations between parents and children from the child’s perspective. Later, Mary Ainsworth (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0004" role="doc-biblioref">Ainsworth et al., 1978</a>) developed more systematic scientific ways of exploring these issues across cultures. Her studies were very important, as they showed that attachment is universal—that we find it in all humans across cultures.</p>
<p>These two pioneers developed the basic language of attachment theory. The field of attachment has been influenced by other disciplines—such as developmental and cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and anthropology. Contemporary theorists and researchers have expanded the language of attachment, because of this cross-fertilization.</p>
<p>Research on mentalization blossomed within the field of attachment and psychodynamic research and theory. The term <i>mentalization</i> has its roots in 1960s French psychoanalytic terminology (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0168" role="doc-biblioref">Marty, 1991</a>), but the modern use of the term owes much to the work of Peter Fonagy and his colleagues at the Anna Freud Centre. It can be thought of as an umbrella concept (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0157" role="doc-biblioref">Luyten &amp; Fonagy, 2015</a>) that overlaps and encompasses a number of other important constructs such as theory of mind (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0196" role="doc-biblioref">Premack &amp; Woodruff, 1978</a>) and mindfulness (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0170" role="doc-biblioref">Masterpasqua, 2016</a>). The focus on mentalization as a clinical construct has contributed to the emergence of a new contemporary psychodynamic clinical modality that integrates the findings of neuropsychology, developmental psychology, genetics, and anthropology under the umbrella of developmental <span aria-label="16" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16"/>psychoanalysis. Working from this perspective approaches the work with parents from a truly curious and flexible stance that makes no assumptions about the developmental and relational journey of a parent, while being supported by a sturdy theoretical and clinical framework.</p>
<section12 epub:type="subchapter">
<p class="head-11">ATTACHMENT AND MENTALIZATION</p>
<p>Secure attachment facilitates the development of mentalization but does not guarantee it. <a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0038" role="doc-biblioref">John Bowlby (1969)</a>, the founder of attachment theory, studied children who exhibited antisocial behavior; he became curious about the connection between (a) the absence of consistent and predictable parenting figures and (b) children’s behavior. Furthermore, he began to observe the impact of loss and separation in children’s development of self-esteem and overall functioning in relationships. His work impacted the way we think about schools and hospitals and understand separations between parents and children from the child’s perspective. Later, Mary Ainsworth (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0004" role="doc-biblioref">Ainsworth et al., 1978</a>) developed more systematic scientific ways of exploring these issues across cultures. Her studies were very important, as they showed that attachment is universal—that we find it in all humans across cultures.</p>
<p>These two pioneers developed the basic language of attachment theory. The field of attachment has been influenced by other disciplines—such as developmental and cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and anthropology. Contemporary theorists and researchers have expanded the language of attachment, because of this cross-fertilization.</p>
<p>Research on mentalization blossomed within the field of attachment and psychodynamic research and theory. The term <i>mentalization</i> has its roots in 1960s French psychoanalytic terminology (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0168" role="doc-biblioref">Marty, 1991</a>), but the modern use of the term owes much to the work of Peter Fonagy and his colleagues at the Anna Freud Centre. It can be thought of as an umbrella concept (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0157" role="doc-biblioref">Luyten &amp; Fonagy, 2015</a>) that overlaps and encompasses a number of other important constructs such as theory of mind (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0196" role="doc-biblioref">Premack &amp; Woodruff, 1978</a>) and mindfulness (<a href="22_Reference.xhtml#p9781433836121-c00bkm-0170" role="doc-biblioref">Masterpasqua, 2016</a>). The focus on mentalization as a clinical construct has contributed to the emergence of a new contemporary psychodynamic clinical modality that integrates the findings of neuropsychology, developmental psychology, genetics, and anthropology under the umbrella of developmental <span aria-label="16" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16"/>psychoanalysis. Working from this perspective approaches the work with parents from a truly curious and flexible stance that makes no assumptions about the developmental and relational journey of a parent, while being supported by a sturdy theoretical and clinical framework.</p>
</section12>
</section11>
</section8>
</section7>
</section6>
</section5>
</section4>
</section3>
</section2>
</section1>
</body>
</html>
